README.md, before:

# Ash’s dotfiles

My OS X dotfiles

## Installation

### Using Git and the bootstrap script

You can clone the repository wherever you want. (I like to keep it in `~/Projects/dotfiles`, with `~/dotfiles` as a symlink.) The bootstrapper script will pull in the latest version and copy the files to your home folder.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles.git && cd dotfiles && source bootstrap.sh
```

To update, `cd` into your local `dotfiles` repository and then:

```bash
source bootstrap.sh
```

Alternatively, to update while avoiding the confirmation prompt:

```bash
set -- -f; source bootstrap.sh
```

### Git-free install

To install these dotfiles without Git:

```bash
cd; curl -#L https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/tarball/master | tar -xzv --strip-components 1 --exclude={README.md,bootstrap.sh,LICENSE-MIT.txt}
```

To update later on, just run that command again.

### Specify the `$PATH`

If `~/.path` exists, it will be sourced along with the other files, before any feature testing (such as [detecting which version of `ls` is being used](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/blob/aff769fd75225d8f2e481185a71d5e05b76002dc/.aliases#L21-26)) takes place.

Here’s an example `~/.path` file that adds `~/utils` to the `$PATH`:

```bash
export PATH="$HOME/utils:$PATH"
```

### Add custom commands without creating a new fork

If `~/.extra` exists, it will be sourced along with the other files. You can use this to add a few custom commands without the need to fork this entire repository, or to add commands you don’t want to commit to a public repository.

My `~/.extra` looks something like this:

```bash
# Git credentials
# Not in the repository, to prevent people from accidentally committing under my name
GIT_AUTHOR_NAME="Ashley Nolan"
GIT_COMMITTER_NAME="$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
git config --global user.name "$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL="contact@dragongraphics.co.uk"
GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL="$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
git config --global user.email "$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
```

You could also use `~/.extra` to override settings, functions and aliases from my dotfiles repository. It’s probably better to [fork this repository](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles/fork) instead, though.

### Sensible OS X defaults

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to set some sensible OS X defaults:

```bash
./.osx
```

### Install Homebrew formulae

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to install some common [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) formulae (after installing Homebrew, of course):

```bash
brew bundle ~/Brewfile
```

### Install native apps with `brew cask`

You could also install native apps with [`brew cask`](https://github.com/phinze/homebrew-cask):

```bash
brew bundle ~/Caskfile
```

## Feedback

Suggestions/improvements
[welcome](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/issues)!

## Author

| [![twitter/AshNolan_]](http://twitter.com/AshNolan_ "Follow @AshNolan_ on Twitter") |
|---|
| [Ashley Nolan](http://ashleynolan.co.uk/) |

## Thanks to…

* @ptb and [his _OS X Lion Setup_ repository](https://github.com/ptb/Mac-OS-X-Lion-Setup)
* [Ben Alman](http://benalman.com/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/cowboy/dotfiles)
* [Chris Gerke](http://www.randomsquared.com/) and his [tutorial on creating an OS X SOE master image](http://chris-gerke.blogspot.com/2012/04/mac-osx-soe-master-image-day-7.html) + [_Insta_ repository](https://github.com/cgerke/Insta)
* [Cãtãlin Mariş](https://github.com/alrra) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/alrra/dotfiles)
* [Gianni Chiappetta](http://gf3.ca/) for sharing his [amazing collection of dotfiles](https://github.com/gf3/dotfiles)
* [Jan Moesen](http://jan.moesen.nu/) and his [ancient `.bash_profile`](https://gist.github.com/1156154) + [shiny _tilde_ repository](https://github.com/janmoesen/tilde)
* [Lauri ‘Lri’ Ranta](http://lri.me/) for sharing [loads of hidden preferences](http://osxnotes.net/defaults.html)
* [Matijs Brinkhuis](http://hotfusion.nl/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/matijs/dotfiles)
* [Mathias Bynens](http://mathiasbynens.be/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles)
* [Nicolas Gallagher](http://nicolasgallagher.com/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/necolas/dotfiles)
* [Sindre Sorhus](http://sindresorhus.com/)
* [Tom Ryder](http://blog.sanctum.geek.nz/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/tejr/dotfiles)
* [Kevin Suttle](http://kevinsuttle.com/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/kevinSuttle/dotfiles) and [OSXDefaults project](https://github.com/kevinSuttle/OSXDefaults), which aims to provide better documentation for [`~/.osx`](http://mths.be/osx)

* anyone who [contributed a patch](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/contributors) or [made a helpful suggestion](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/issues)

Commit message:

Updating dotfiles with zsh updates

README.md, after:

# Ash’s dotfiles

My OS X dotfiles

## Installation

### Using Git and the bootstrap script

You can clone the repository wherever you want. (I like to keep it in `~/Projects/dotfiles`, with `~/dotfiles` as a symlink.) The bootstrapper script will pull in the latest version and copy the files to your home folder.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles.git && cd dotfiles && source bootstrap.sh
```

To update, `cd` into your local `dotfiles` repository and then:

```bash
source bootstrap.sh
```

Alternatively, to update while avoiding the confirmation prompt:

```bash
set -- -f; source bootstrap.sh
```

### Git-free install

To install these dotfiles without Git:

```bash
cd; curl -#L https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/tarball/master | tar -xzv --strip-components 1 --exclude={README.md,bootstrap.sh,LICENSE-MIT.txt}
```

To update later on, just run that command again.

### Specify the `$PATH`

If `~/.path` exists, it will be sourced along with the other files, before any feature testing (such as [detecting which version of `ls` is being used](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/blob/aff769fd75225d8f2e481185a71d5e05b76002dc/.aliases#L21-26)) takes place.

Here’s an example `~/.path` file that adds `~/utils` to the `$PATH`:

```bash
export PATH="$HOME/utils:$PATH"
```

### Add custom commands without creating a new fork

If `~/.extra` exists, it will be sourced along with the other files. You can use this to add a few custom commands without the need to fork this entire repository, or to add commands you don’t want to commit to a public repository.

My `~/.extra` looks something like this:

```bash
# Git credentials
# Not in the repository, to prevent people from accidentally committing under my name
GIT_AUTHOR_NAME="Ashley Nolan"
GIT_COMMITTER_NAME="$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
git config --global user.name "$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL="contact@dragongraphics.co.uk"
GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL="$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
git config --global user.email "$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
```

You could also use `~/.extra` to override settings, functions and aliases from my dotfiles repository. It’s probably better to [fork this repository](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles/fork) instead, though.

### Sensible OS X defaults

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to set some sensible OS X defaults:

```bash
./.osx
```

### Install Homebrew formulae

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to install some common [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) formulae (after installing Homebrew, of course):

```bash
./brew.sh
```

Some of the functionality of these dotfiles depends on formulae installed by brew.sh. If you don’t plan to run brew.sh, you should look carefully through the script and manually install any particularly important ones. A good example is Bash/Git completion: the dotfiles use a special version from Homebrew.


### Install native apps with `brew cask`

You could also install native apps with [`brew cask`](https://github.com/phinze/homebrew-cask):

```bash
brew bundle ~/Caskfile
```

## Feedback

Suggestions/improvements
[welcome](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/issues)!

## Author

| [![twitter/AshNolan_]](http://twitter.com/AshNolan_ "Follow @AshNolan_ on Twitter") |
|---|
| [Ashley Nolan](http://ashleynolan.co.uk/) |

## Thanks to…

* @ptb and [his _OS X Lion Setup_ repository](https://github.com/ptb/Mac-OS-X-Lion-Setup)
* [Ben Alman](http://benalman.com/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/cowboy/dotfiles)
* [Chris Gerke](http://www.randomsquared.com/) and his [tutorial on creating an OS X SOE master image](http://chris-gerke.blogspot.com/2012/04/mac-osx-soe-master-image-day-7.html) + [_Insta_ repository](https://github.com/cgerke/Insta)
* [Cãtãlin Mariş](https://github.com/alrra) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/alrra/dotfiles)
* [Gianni Chiappetta](http://gf3.ca/) for sharing his [amazing collection of dotfiles](https://github.com/gf3/dotfiles)
* [Jan Moesen](http://jan.moesen.nu/) and his [ancient `.bash_profile`](https://gist.github.com/1156154) + [shiny _tilde_ repository](https://github.com/janmoesen/tilde)
* [Lauri ‘Lri’ Ranta](http://lri.me/) for sharing [loads of hidden preferences](http://osxnotes.net/defaults.html)
* [Matijs Brinkhuis](http://hotfusion.nl/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/matijs/dotfiles)
* [Mathias Bynens](http://mathiasbynens.be/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles)
* [Nicolas Gallagher](http://nicolasgallagher.com/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/necolas/dotfiles)
* [Sindre Sorhus](http://sindresorhus.com/)
* [Tom Ryder](http://blog.sanctum.geek.nz/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/tejr/dotfiles)
* [Kevin Suttle](http://kevinsuttle.com/) and his [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/kevinSuttle/dotfiles) and [OSXDefaults project](https://github.com/kevinSuttle/OSXDefaults), which aims to provide better documentation for [`~/.osx`](http://mths.be/osx)

* anyone who [contributed a patch](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/contributors) or [made a helpful suggestion](https://github.com/ashleynolan/dotfiles/issues)
